Add custom CosmJs elements to my own chain (#998)
cosmos/sdk-tutorials: academy/4-my-own-chain/cosmjs-messages.md

---
title: CosmJs - Create the messages for your GUI
order: 23
description: Create the messages that your GUI will use
tag: deep-dive
---

# CosmJs - Create the messages for your GUI

<HighlightBox type="synopsis">

Make sure you have all you need before proceeding:

> * You understand the concepts of [CosmJs](TODO).

Reviewer: Broken link

Author: Ah yes, we will have to fix those when the files are in their ~forever home~ final folder @coldice.

            token: token,
            wager: wager,
        },
    }
    return this.signAndBroadcast(creator, [createMsg], fee, memo)
}

public async playMove(
    creator: string,
    gameId: string,
    from: Pos,
    to: Pos,
    fee: StdFee | "auto" | number,
    memo = "",
): Promise<DeliverTxResponse> {
    const playMoveMsg: MsgPlayMoveEncodeObject = {
        typeUrl: typeUrlMsgPlayMove,
        value: {
            creator: creator,
            idValue: gameId,
            fromX: Long.fromNumber(from.x),
            fromY: Long.fromNumber(from.y),
            toX: Long.fromNumber(to.x),
            toY: Long.fromNumber(to.y),
        },
    }
    return this.signAndBroadcast(creator, [playMoveMsg], fee, memo)
}

public async rejectGame(
    creator: string,
    gameId: string,
    fee: StdFee | "auto" | number,
    memo = "",
): Promise<DeliverTxResponse> {
    const rejectGameMsg: MsgRejectGameEncodeObject = {
        typeUrl: typeUrlMsgRejectGame,
        value: {
            creator: creator,
            idValue: gameId,
        },
    }
    return this.signAndBroadcast(creator, [rejectGameMsg], fee, memo)
}
```

## Test your signing client

> To do some live testing, you can reuse the `experiment.ts` file you created in the [previous section](./cosmjs-objects.md). It is a little bit more involved because you first need to provide a signer. You learned how to do this in the [CosmJs introduction section](TODO).

Reviewer: broken link

```

In particular, we learn that the checkers module's escrow address is `cosmos16xx0e...7srm3`.

### Reject the game

And to test that too, why not have Alice reject the game?

```typescript [https://github.com/cosmos/academy-checkers-ui/blob/dab7dd4/test/live/experiment.ts#L86-L91]
const rejectResponse: DeliverTxResponse = await aliceSigningClient.rejectGame(
    alice,
    createdGameId,
    "auto",
)
console.log(rejectResponse)
```

In its print, you can also find the escrow refund event of the form:

```json
{
    "type": "transfer",
    "attributes": [
        {
            "key": "recipient",
            "value": "cosmos1e0ewpn5a4zmlu945eqem8p4q4l04wpgly70kvj"
        },
        {
            "key": "sender",
            "value": "cosmos16xx0e457hm8mywdhxtmrar9t09z0mqt9x7srm3"
        },
        {
            "key": "amount",
            "value": "5stake"
        }
    ]
}
```

Which is good news, if expected.

## Conclusion

You can modify this test file, in particular choose not to reject the game, but instead to list it in the next test run, thanks to the [`getAllStoredGames` call](https://github.com/cosmos/academy-checkers-ui/blob/dab7dd4/test/live/experiment.ts#L33).

> You have now included the elements and messages that allow you to interact with the Checkers blockchain. You have confirmed this with a small NodeJs experimentation file. The _only_ things that remain now are to add any [server-side scripts](TODO) and have [a GUI](TODO) in which to plug the elements you created.

Reviewer: two broken links

Author: ```suggestion
You have now included the elements and messages that allow you to interact with the Checkers blockchain. You have confirmed this with a small NodeJs experimentation file. The _only_ things that remain now are to add any [server-side scripts](./server-side.md) and have [a GUI](./external-gui.md) in which to plug the elements you created.
```

Make sure you have all you need before proceeding:

* You understand the concepts of [CosmJs](TODO).
* You have the checkers blockchain codebase up to the CosmJs objects. If not, follow the [previous steps](./cosmjs-objects.md) or check out the [relevant version](https://github.com/cosmos/academy-checkers-ui/tree/stargate).

</HighlightBox>

In the previous section, you created the objects that allow you to **query** your Checkers blockchain. Now, you will create the elements that allow you to **send transactions** to it.

## Encodable messages

> Previously you defined in Protobuf three messages and their respective responses. You had Protobuf [compile them](https://github.com/cosmos/academy-checkers-ui/blob/generated/src/types/generated/checkers/tx.ts). Now you will create an `EncodeObject` along the lines of [CosmJs](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmjs/blob/13ce43c/packages/stargate/src/modules/bank/messages.ts). First, collect their names and Protobuf packages. Each Protobuf type identifier is assigned its encodable type:

Author: ```suggestion
Previously you defined in Protobuf three messages and their respective responses. You had Protobuf [compile them](https://github.com/cosmos/academy-checkers-ui/blob/generated/src/types/generated/checkers/tx.ts). Now you will create multiple `EncodeObject`s along the lines of [CosmJs](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmjs/blob/13ce43c/packages/stargate/src/modules/bank/messages.ts). First, collect their names and Protobuf packages. Each Protobuf type identifier is assigned its encodable type:
```
@AndrewB9lab
